---
draft: true
tags:
  - digital-gorvement
source: "[[Managing Chaos]]"
---
A policy is by nature general, and it identifies the corporate rules. The fact that it consists of brief statements does not mean that it is unenforceable, because a well-written policy will explain why the rules exist, when to apply them, to whom they apply, and what the consequences are if the rules are broken. You should consider the following attributes when creating a sound and strong policy: • Contextual: The policy should consider the corporation in the context of its regulatory industry and public perception, at the local, regional, national, and global level in which it operates. It should consider the regulatory and legal ramifications of operat- ing digital communications in this outward-facing context. • Inclusive: The policy should consider the impact of all audi- ences directly or indirectly impacted by the policy and involve interested parties directly. It also should consider the ability to adopt and comply with the policy. (Note: I often see incremental adoption of a policy and subsequently recommend remediation versus penalty consequences.) 

Realistic: The policy should have a level of realism associated with it. In other words, the policy cannot express such a high standard that it is so unrealistic that it will never be completely achieved by those tasked • Enforceable: The policy should be written so that those respon- sible for policy compliance can actually measure its compliance. Codifying policy in such a way that an organization has no way of determining whether or not it is being adhered to by stake- holders only weakens the policy domain. • Rooted in Evidence: A policy should be rooted in expert opinion and industry practices. Rooting policy in applicable legal findings and rulings further ensures that the organization is well protected. • Comprehensive: The policy must be holistic and look beyond the digital boundaries to the organization’s strategic objectives (and, at times, those of the parent company) to establish the legal, moral, and ethical foundation for the policy. Cross- organizational objectives may need to be reflected (example: the need for communications to broadcast information and for security to protect sensitive information from being broadcast), and thus collaboration must be established and the joining of interests adopted into the policy.