---
draft: true
tags:
  - writing
source: "[[Writing for Designers]]"
---
# Xây dựng dàn ý 
Outlines are great for longform writing like product overviews, knowledge base articles, in-product documentation, and so on. Outlines give an…uh…well, an outline of what you need to communicate and the rough order in which you need to communicate it. Creating an outline may give you flashbacks to school research papers, but they are very useful in the world of design writing. Outlines are hierarchical: main point, sub-point, sub- sub-point (Fig 1.3). In that way, the outline not only informs your writing, but also the design—the big idea becomes your H1, the next level your H2. Blocks of similar ideas at the same level might work well as bullet points or a chart. List out the main beats, the big ideas, of what you want to say. Then, as you’re able, add detail under those big ideas. Answer questions like: Who cares? So what? Why does this matter? Don’t worry about how the words sound—the text of the outline is for you, not your readers. After you’ve gotten your rough outline together, look for opportunities to group and collapse related ideas. Where are you repeating yourself? Where might you need to add a larger point to tie a few of the smaller ones together? Give a thought to the order of things, too. What information will be most useful to have toward the top of the copy? What can wait until the end? Clear thinking is powerful. With a strong outline, some of your writing will seem to write itself! 

# Sử dụng template 
Templates are any tool that says “Structure your writing in this particular way.” Content strategists have all kinds of names for the templates they make: page tables, page description dia- grams, content templates, and more. Templates are sometimes built into content management systems or headless content systems like Gather Content. Templates can generally be understood as a two-column table (Fig 1.4). The left column defines what needs to be written (including constraints like word or character limits), and the right column provides space to write the thing. You can turn any design that needs words into a template by simply listing the various design elements down the left column. As the name implies, templates are a great choice when you have to make the same sort of thing more than once.

# Inventories

Inventories work well when you have lots of little bits of texts, as with interface copy. Inventories are made in spreadsheets, where it’s easy to keep track of all those little bits and their associated data. You can start by sequentially numbering text elements in a wireframe—this creates a quick inventory that connects what’s been designed and what’s being written (Fig 1.5). The resulting identification system makes it easier to manage your work and collaborate on it with others. Having all of your strings ID’d makes them “talkable”—the difference between: 
Do you have the approved copy for G 7.1?” and: “Do you have the approved copy for the text that goes under the button on the fifth screen of the third section of the app? No, not that button, the other button. Right. Wait, that doesn’t fit, what version are you looking at?”