---
draft: true
tags:
  - product-design
source: "[[About Face]]"
---
There are four main reasons why this is the case: 
- Misplaced priorities on the part of both product management and development teams
	-  While marketers are adept at understanding and quantifying a marketplace opportunity, and at introducing and positioning a product within that market, their input into the product design process is often limited to lists of requirements. These requirements often have little to do with what users actually need or desire and have more to do with chasing the competition, managing IT resources with to-do lists, and making guesses based on market surveys—what people say they’ll buy. (Contrary to what you might suspect, few users can clearly articulate their needs. When asked direct questions about the products they use, most tend to focus on low-level tasks or workarounds to product flaws. And, what they think they’ll buy doesn’t tell you much about how—or if—they will use it.)
	- Developers, on the other hand, often have no shortage of input into the product’s final form and behavior. Because they are in charge of construction, they decide exactly what gets built. And they too have a different set of imperatives than the product’s eventual audience. Good developers are focused on solving challenging technical problems, fol- lowing good engineering practices, and meeting deadlines. They often are given incom- plete, myopic, confusing, and sometimes contradictory instructions and are forced to make significant decisions about the user experience with little time or knowledge of how people will actually use their creations
• Ignorance about real users of the product and what their baseline needs are for success 
	Most technology products get built without much understanding of users. We might know what market segment our users are in, how much money they make, how they like to spend their weekends, and what sorts of cars they buy. We might even have a vague idea of what kind of jobs they have and some of the major tasks they regularly perform. But does any of this tell us how to make them happy? Does it tell us how they will actually use the product we’re building? Does it tell us why they are doing whatever it is they might need our product for, why they might want to choose our product over our competitors, or how we can make sure they do? No, it does not.  
• Conflicts of interest when development teams are charged with both designing and building the user experience 
• Lack of a design process that permits knowledge about user needs to be gathered, analyzed, and used to drive the development of the end experience
	Engineering departments follow—or should follow— rigorous engineering methods that ensure the feasibility and quality of the technology. Similarly, marketing, sales, and other business units follow their own well-established methods for ensuring the commercial viability of new products. What’s left out is a repeatable, predictable, and analytical process for ensuring desirability: transforming an understanding of users into products that meet their professional, personal, and emo- tional needs.