---
draft: true
tags:
  - CMS
  - web
source: "[[The Web Project Guide - From Spark to Launch and Beyond]]"
---
Content Modeling: This is the ability for a CMS to accurately represent a logical model of your content – essentially, the technical representation of the model we created in Chapter 11: Model Your Content, and it’s more important in some situations than others. A small campaign site might not need much beyond a generic “page,” while other sites might have detailed, intricate models. • Editorial Tools: These are the tools editors are given to actually manage content. Features like workflow, approvals, preview, collaboration, etc. These are tools that let you do the “management” of content management. • Security Tools: This allows for the management of users, their organization into groups, and the assignment of permissions. Some systems are simple enough to be binary – you’re either authenticated or not – while others allow for highly granular control over specific permissions for what might be hundreds or thousands of users. • Publishing Tools: These are the features and frameworks that allow you to broadcast content into a delivery channel somewhere. For most systems, this is a templating system that allows you – or your developers – to generate HTML that can be delivered to a browser. However, a CMS can push content into other channels, like social media or mobile devices. • Media Management: These are the features around the management of rich media files, like images and documents. Some systems just allow you to manage a directory of files on the server, while others allow detailed modeling and management of media files just like other content. • Integrations: As we discussed at length in Chapter 14: Know Your Integrations, these are the hooks that allow your CMS to communicate with other systems, as well as the library of other systems that have packaged integrations with your CMS. • Marketing and Optimization Tools: These tools allow for the optimization of content by doing things like personalizing content for specific visitors, showing different variations of content to see which one performs better, and tracking visitors to develop a comprehensive profile of them.