---
tags:
  - writing
source: "[[Writing for Designers]]"
---
The ACBs are a set of writing and editing lenses created by Ken Rand in his book The 10% Solution. The acronym stands for Accuracy, Clarity, and Brevity. The order of the lenses is as important as the lenses themselves. 

# Accuracy
Start by writing something that is objectively true. The labels in our interface copy need to correspond with what actually happens when the user interacts with those elements. The features and benefits in our marketing copy need to reflect the actual product the user is signing up for, not an imagined or ideal version. The product copy needs to provide real, useful guidance. If what we’re writing is wrong, we’re already sunk. Accuracy in interface copy requires understanding how the interface actually behaves. If you’re not sure, ask! You might be surprised how often you’ll discover a button, link, or other element whose behavior is a mystery, even if you designed it. Find the answer, design the answer, or carve those unknowns out of the scope of your current assignment (and be sure to flag them for follow-up). A simple example: don’t write DELETE (the file from the system) when you really mean REMOVE (the file from the list). Accuracy in product copy often depends on understanding your reader’s context. Something that’s true for users that are signed in, for instance, might not be true for users that aren’t. For your first draft, write out what you think is true to the best of your understanding, and flag anything that you think might need more attention. Accuracy in marketing copy can be trickier. Stakeholders are often pushing for superlatives—the latest, greatest, best, most amazing. But accuracy isn’t just about the truth; it’s also a way to cut through the fluff and express more powerful and compelling ideas. For example, let’s say you’re editing a list of features for a new product and come across this: 
Secure storage means you’ll never have to worry about someone else accessing your important files. Not bad, but let’s apply our accuracy lens and see what happens. We might ask: “Is it true that users will never have to worry about this? It is true that it’s secure? What does secure mean? Is it true that no one else will ever access the files? Does that include our support department?” Statements that feel accurate to your product and marketing teams aren’t always objective statements of truth. What’s secure to one person might be risky to another, and your product can’t control what people will or won’t worry about. So let’s say you look back at your inputs, and it turns out that your company uses an industry-leading encryption protocol, enables two-factor authentication by default, and has under- gone a vigorous auditing process conducted by a well-respected outside agency. Nice! So instead of the (not objectively true) marketing text, you might write: The most secure file storage solution our industry has ever seen. And that could be punched up even more with links to infor- mation about your security practices and so on. A big change and a powerful improvement, all from one little question: Is this true?

# Clarity 
After you have your facts straight, you want to focus on making your writing clear—that is, straightforward, simple, and easy to understand. To create clarity, look for opportunities to: • replace resplendently fantastical fancy language with simpler language (and uncommon words with common ones) • put things in a logical order • add supporting information • add examples and anecdotes to reinforce your point
• delete things that don’t support your main idea • define concepts that users might be unfamiliar with Context is also an important part of clarity. Take a fresh look at the context-creating inputs from your Prepare phase to make sure that the text you’ve prepared will be readily understood by your audience. Sometimes the easiest way to bring clarity to your writing is to simply rewrite it. Unlike in real life, where whatever stupid thing that just came out of your mouth at the party can never be unsaid, writing allows for instant do-overs. You don’t owe anything to your first draft (except accuracy, of course). (Rewrites are a balancing act. You want to keep writing, and write quickly, yes. And you want to leave the bulk of your edit- ing work for the next phase. But in practice, doing the writing tends to involve quick iterative cycles of writing something and then revising what you’ve just written.) Clarity is in the middle of this ACB sandwich because text can never be clear if it’s not accurate or too brief.
That’s obviously quite lengthy and not good. But it’s written! And it’s something to work from, as opposed to the nothing you had before. Another quick pass—focusing on the verbs—might get you down to: Submit and Join That’s more concise, but also sounds like the slogan of a sci-fi totalitarian regime. But it has the key information, and gives you a foundation for further revision. Laying out messages like that for an entire screen or flow puts the whole story in front of you—which makes what you need to say, and where, much more apparent. For instance, after writing just that little bit, you might realize that submitting the form and joining the mailing list should be separate options, requiring a checkbox and message below the button. Mark it for discussion and move on to the next bit of writing—there’s no reason to perfect the text of a button that might change.