---
tags:
  - web
  - project-management
source: "[[The Web Project Guide - From Spark to Launch and Beyond]]"
---
Planning: Yes. A discovery project clearly benefits from a deep understanding of visitors and their needs. A strategist who has done this for your industry before has an existing reservoir of experience and data to work from. • UX: Maybe. A similar project might have some interaction patterns that are similar, and perhaps some functional elements that would appear often (financial calculators, for example). • Design: Probably not. Good design is good design. I suppose someone could claim to specialize in the colors and shapes that appeal to banking customers, but that seems pretty esoteric. And you’d probably end up with a website that looks like all your competitors’ websites. With design, fresh perspective often helps. • Technical Consulting: Maybe. There might be some technical aspects to a banking website that would appear again and again, but this seems like a small advantage. Any competent technical architect could probably adapt to this. • Development: Probably not. As above, there might be some technical challenges that cross over, but what’s far more important here is experience in the CMS platform. If there are specific industry angles to an aspect of the project, the issues would likely have been examined and translated into standard development tasks during technical consulting. • Migration: No. Content is basically content. • Content Creation: Yes. This is a core marketing function that is helped by industry and visitor experience. • Infrastructure Consulting: Not really. There are some industries that are more stringent about security, but “high security” is a general concept that any provider could be familiar with. Any differential benefit of experience would be limited. • Ongoing Support: No. Like development, it’s far more important that the provider understands the CMS and hosting environment. • Project Management: No. Web project management is basically the same across industries. Banks manage these projects the same way as everyone else.