---
draft: true
tags:
  - interaction-design
  - product-design
source: "[[About Face]]"
---
In the late 1970s and early 1980s, a dedicated and visionary set of researchers, engineers, and designers in the San Francisco Bay area were busy inventing how people would interact with computers in the future. At Xerox Parc, SRI, and eventually Apple Com- puter, people had begun discussing what it meant to create useful and usable “human interfaces” to digital products. In the mid-1980s, two industrial designers, Bill Moggridge and Bill Verplank, were working on the first laptop computer, the GRiD Compass. They coined the term interaction design for what they were doing. But it would be another 10 years before other designers rediscovered this term and brought it into mainstream use. When About Face was first published in August 1995, the landscape of interaction design was still a frontier wilderness. A small cadre of people brave enough to hold the title user interface designer operated in the shadow of software engineering, rather like the tiny, quick-witted mammals that lurked in the shadows of hulking tyrannosaurs. “Software design,” as the first edition of About Face called it, was poorly understood and underap- preciated. When it was practiced at all, it was usually practiced by developers. A handful of uneasy technical writers, trainers, and product support people, along with a rising number of practitioners from another nascent field—usability—realized that something needed to change. The amazing growth and popularity of the web drove that change, seemingly overnight. Suddenly, the phrase “ease of use” was on everyone’s lips. Traditional design profession- als, who had dabbled in digital product design during the short-lived popularity of “mul- timedia” in the early ’90s, leapt to the web en masse. Seemingly new design titles sprang up like weeds: information designer, information architect, user experience strategist, interaction designer. For the first time, C-level executive positions were established to focus on creating user-centered products and services, such as chief experience officer. Universities scrambled to offer programs to train designers in these disciplines. Mean- while, usability and human-factors practitioners also rose in stature and are now recog- nized as advocates for better-designed products. Although the web knocked back interaction design idioms by more than a decade, it inarguably placed user requirements on the radar of the corporate world permanently. After the second edition of About Face was published in 2003, the user experience of dig- ital products became front-page news in the likes of Time and BusinessWeek. And insti- tutions such as Harvard Business School and Stanford recognized the need to train the next generation of MBAs and technologists to incorporate design thinking into their business and development plans. People are tired of new technology for its own sake. Consumers are sending a clear message that they want good technology: technology that is designed to provide a compelling and effective user experience. In August 2003, five months after the second edition of About Face proclaimed the existence of a new design discipline called interaction design, Bruce “Tog” Tognazzini made an impassioned plea to the nascent community to create a nonprofit professional organization. A mailing list and steering committee were founded shortly thereafter by Challis Hodge, David Malouf, Rick Cecil, and Jim Jarrett. In September 2005, IxDA, the Interaction Design Association (www.ixda.org), was incorpo- rated. In February 2008, less than a year after the publication of the third edition of About Face, IxDA hosted its first international design conference, Interaction08, in Savannah, Georgia. In 2012, IxDA presented its first annual Interaction Awards for outstanding designs submitted from all over the world. IxDA currently has over 70,000 members liv- ing in more than 20 countries. We’re pleased to say that interaction design has truly come into its own as both a design discipline and a profession.