---
draft: true
tags:
  - journalism
source: "[[Writing to Deadline]]"
---
Chia sẻ của Donald Murray về kỉ niệm thời thơ ấu và những nhận thức ban đầu của ông rằng điều gì khiến mình có "thiên phú" về nhà báo, có lẽ cần có 3 phẩm chất

1, Đôi tai lắng nghe mọi thứ xung quanh 
> I was a listener, a watcher, a spy, a sneak. I was driven by a con tinuous, hungry curiosity-and I still am. Part of the reason was that I was an only child in a home of four adults-grandmother, uncle, mother, father (in order of power and availability) and I needed to understand their complex relationship.

2, Sự nhạy cảm với các câu chuyện, những sự mâu thuẫn xuất hiện ngoài đời thường
> I developed an instinct for story, the dramatic interaction between peo ple that moved forward with cause and effect.

3, Sự tò mò, luôn đặt câu hỏi: Ai? Ở đâu? Cái gì? Lúc nào? Tại sao? Như thế nào?
> My need to know led me to the six reporter's questions that years later, when I was first working on a newspaper, I would count out on my fingers before returning to the paper and facing the fierce question ing of the city editor: Who? What? When? Where? How? Why? 

> Reporters are grown-ups who never stop asking why. And each ans swer leads to another question. Curiosity is a hunger that can never be satisfied. It is a way of life and, I think, a fine way of life because an un ceasing wonder keeps the asker forever young, forever aware, forever seeking, gloriously unsatisfied.

Vậy bản thân mình cũng có những trải nghiệm tương tự không?