---
draft: true
tags:
  - leadership
  - digital
source: "[[Managing Chaos]]"
---
Digital progressives are faster to leverage the capabilities of digital to augment existing or invent new business processes, products, and services. There are obvious digital progressives, such as leaders of organizations like MailChimp, Amazon, and the myriad of other 1990s and more recent digital start-ups—organizations that built themselves from the ground up on a digital platform. All digital— Digital Strategy: Aligning Expertise and Authority all the time. These organizations are obviously led by digital pro- gressives. But if you look at organizations that existed prior to the advent of the commercial Web, you will see other dynamics. In businesses that existed prior to the advent of the commercial Web, you will see two types of digitally progressive leaders. There are those out front who are reinventing their business and sometimes their vertical marketspace by maximizing the capabilities of digital. They might be leveraging “big data” to better understand the behav- iors and needs of their customer base and to shape and drive the operations of the business. And you can also see the digital progres- sive that leans into digital indiscriminately. These people identify the latest digital technology or marketing tactic as a panacea or a quick boost onto the Internet, without paying attention to the fundamentals of real business needs and performance. As with digital conservatism, an organization led by a digital progressive can have a positive or negative result. A progressive approach to digital with an undefined or ill-defined digital strategy and weak governance and operational practices can lead to chaos online. However, a progressive approach to digital with a clearly defined digital strategy and a clear approach to operations and governance can not only produce a great result for an organization, but it can also alter a marketspace.

HE UNINTENTIONAL DIGITAL PROGRESSIVE The unintentional digital progressive might have these characteristics: • Implements digital capabilities without real business case or performance objectives. • Sometimes indiscriminately adopts new technologies without any real business purpose. NOTE THE INTENTIONAL DIGITAL PROGRESSIVE The intentional digital progressive often exhibits the following characteristics: • Integrates digital strategy with overall business strategy. • Utilizes digital capabilities to invent new ways to do business and to set norms for others in their marketspace. • Tunes operational and governance practices to support the new normal of digital. 