---
draft: true
tags:
  - content-strategy
source: "[[Content Everywhere]]"
---
Tổng hợp một số loại nội dung thường xuất hiện nhất trong quá trình làm mô hình nội dung

> - Title/headline: This is a given for most content. Typically just a few words long, though not always, the title is the most common entry point to the content. 
> - Copy deck/teaser/synopsis: These little tidbits may go by various names, but their structure is typically similar: short, punchy copy that leads users into the content. Attribution/byline: Content authorship is an important element, both for legal reasons (e.g., you may be required to attribute the work to the author in order to avoid copyright infringement), and because it’s often useful to relate multiple pieces of content by the same person, such as on a bio page with an author archive. 
> - Date stamp: News stories, blog posts, event listings, and other types of time-sensitive content usually feature a date stamp, which can mark either when the content was published or when the content is relevant, like in an event listing. 
> - Subhead: Subheads can be found intermittently throughout a piece of content, demarcating sections of information, or at the beginning of the piece, adding context and detail to a headline.
> - Summary: These provide quick overviews of what’s included in a piece of content, such as an abstract for a research paper or a boxed nut graph in a news story.
> - Bulleted or numbered lists: Lists are tricky little beasts: sometimes, they’re part and parcel with a larger, more distinct content element. But other times, they’re working their own magic on a piece of content, serving up discrete information, such as specs or product features. If that’s the case, be sure to label them based on what they are—e.g., specs—not just the format they’re in. 
> - Body content: Beware this content element, as it’s typically where large swaths of text get left to wallow shapelessly. To help prevent this, some organizations break long copy into multiple body sections, each one holding a key theme or narrative. However, many content types will have main content areas where more specific content elements aren’t really discernible. If that’s the case, don’t try to break these into arbi- trary pieces—just let it be a longer chunk.
> - Complementary content: Often treated as a sidebar—like a timeline that accompanies a trend piece in a magazine, or a quick facts inset that provides a short overview of a story—this content is independent from the main narrative (as in, the main narrative can be read and understood without it). Like lists, when breaking them out, make sure to consider not just where the content lives on a given page, but what that content actu- ally means—and name the content element accordingly. 
> - Images and videos: While images and videos can certainly be content types unto themselves—you’ve seen YouTube, right?—they’re often sim- ply elements of a larger piece of content, telling one part of a story or supporting other elements. It’s important to decide whether a video can stand alone or is part of a more complex type of content. 
> - Captions: Working in tandem with photos, charts, graphics, or videos, captions add written context to visual content. 
> - Transcripts: Transcripts to audio content provide users with a text ver- sion, which can be useful for accessibility, SEO, and other factors. While a transcript could live on its own, divorced from its A/V companion, it is often part of a larger multimedia content type.
> - Pull quotes: Typically larger, more graphic treatments of a quote pulled from within a story or a key message from within marketing content, pull quotes turn important or compelling information into a visual hook for readers. 
> - Tags and categories: Sometimes this information is only used for internal metadata (e.g., to help your CMS connect information or enable your CMS authors to find content), but it may be used as external-facing content as well. Tags and categories can provide access to other similar content, help set the scene for users, and increase SEO performance.