---
draft: true
tags:
  - product-design
  - interaction-design
source: "[[About Face]]"
---
Users’ goals are often quite different from what we might guess them to be. For exam- ple, we might think that an accounting clerk’s goal is to process invoices efficiently. This is probably not true. Efficient invoice processing is more likely the goal of the clerk’s employer. The clerk probably concentrates on goals like appearing competent at his job and keeping himself engaged with his work while performing routine and repetitive tasks—although he may not verbally (or even consciously) acknowledge this. Regardless of the work we do and the tasks we must accomplish, most of us share these simple, personal goals. Even if we have higher aspirations, they are still more personal than work-related: winning a promotion, learning more about our field, or setting a good example for others, for instance. Products designed and built to achieve business goals alone will eventually fail; users’ personal goals need to be addressed. When the design meets the user’s personal goals, business goals are achieved far more effectively, for reasons we’ll explore in more detail in later chapters. If you examine most commercially available software, websites, and digital products, you will find that their user interfaces fail to meet user goals with alarming frequency. They routinely: • Make users feel stupid. • Cause users to make big mistakes. • Require too much effort to operate effectively. • Don’t provide an engaging or enjoyable experience

Most of the same software is equally poor at achieving its business purpose. Invoices don’t get processed all that well. Customers don’t get serviced on time. Decisions don’t get properly supported. This is no coincidence. The companies that develop these products have the wrong priorities. Most focus far too narrowly on implementation issues, which distract them from users’ needs. Even when businesses become sensitive to their users, they are often powerless to change their products. The conventional development process assumes that the user interface should be addressed after coding begins—sometimes even after it ends. But just as you cannot effectively design a building after construction begins, you cannot easily make an application serve users’ goals as soon as a significant and inflexible code base is in place. Finally, when companies do focus on the users, they tend to pay too much attention to the tasks users engage in and not enough attention to their goals in performing those tasks. Software can be technologically superb and perform each business task with dili- gence, yet still be a critical and commercial failure. We can’t ignore technology or tasks, but they play only a part in a larger schema that includes designing to meet user goals.