---
draft: true
tags:
  - business
  - case-study
source: "[[Content Everywhere]]"
---
Sometimes organizations miss the target when it some to digital. I’m not talking about the type or targeting that leads to low user experience or a bad website design. I’m talking about missing the target to the extent that your company goes out of business. While a lot of businesses have been impacted by digital and struggle to come up with an appropriate market response, some seem overly reticent to what many perceive to be an obvious market disruption. An example of this was Blockbuster’s response (or lack of response) to shifts in the distribution model for at-home entertainment. It took the better part of a decade for Redbox and Netflix to gain market share over Blockbuster. How do companies that “own” a market sector fail so grandly? Factors that come into play in the Blockbuster Syndrome are the following: A digitally conservative leadership. This might include the execu- tive level and, in some cases, a board of directors that is completely tone-deaf to the market disruption. A healthy cash reserve. Businesses that are rich in cash often have a lot of room for error—too much room sometimes. That cash comfort affords an organization the luxury of watching a market trend for a while (too long) before reacting. Underestimating the transformation. A lot of mature businesses underestimate the depth of the digital transformation and the amount of time it will take for a large business to integrate the dynamics of digital with the rest of the business. Digital start- ups can work agilely naturally—because they are small. Mature businesses have to work at being agile—and then make the transformation. After a digital conservative leadership with a healthy cash reserve finally figures out that their business is in trouble, it’s often too late for them to make the changes required to remain competitive. 