---
tags:
  - working
  - facilitative
  - listening
source:
---
Paraphrasing 
Paraphrasing is all about letting the participants know that you’re listening and to help reiterate their thoughts to the larger group. Paraphrase to get clarity and to ensure everyone understands what was said. Use phrases like, “I think what you’re saying is . . . Is that what you meant?” 
Drawing People Out 
Sometimes a stakeholder will have a hard time articulating their idea, which can cause them to stop trying to explain it and withdraw. The facilitator can—and should—help in these situations. Start by paraphrasing what you think they meant and then follow up with “Can you think of an example of when that happened?” or “Tell me a little more about that.” It’s also important to consider why someone might not feel safe to share their thoughts out loud and offer alternatives such as typing in the chat. Conversation Tracking We’ve all been in a meeting where two or more conversations are happening at the same time. Sometimes it’s side conversations (which are against our ground rules!). But sometimes it’s just that people are focused on different aspects of a question. All those aspects are likely important. As a facilitator, you want to listen for the various tracks and lead conversations around them. When you notice multiple conversations, you can say, “It seems we’re discussing a few different things here. Let’s talk about one at a time so that we don’t lose anything.” Principled Disagreement Disagreement should be expected, not avoided. But it takes some skilled facilitation for disagreement to culminate in a positive result. To encourage principled disagreement and facilitate understanding, you can make room for conflicting perspectives without dismissing either or shutting down the conversation. Sometimes it might be more important to the success of the project to follow the conversation to a conclusion even if it means you don’t get to other items on your agenda. Silence If you’re like me, this silence thing is hard. It’s also effective. You can use it a few ways. One is to give people a chance to collect their thoughts. Don’t jump to fill the silence. Another is to slow down the conversation when something exceptional has happened—someone shares an idea that seems to blow everyone away or agreement was reached when you never thought it would be. And sometimes, people need a break. It’s OK to say, “Let’s sit for a minute and process what we’ve just discussed.”