---
draft: true
tags:
  - empathy
source: "[[Practical Empathy]]"
---
In psychology literature, the type of empathy defined in this book is called cognitive empathy. This kind of empathy is one of several variations. Each of these variations is about developing empathy—the part where an understanding of someone else builds in your head. • Mirrored empathy: Some neuroscientists posit that when a test subject sees face, mouth, and hand movements of a source subject, that test subject’s brain fires in a similar manner to the source’s brain. Emotional transmittal occurs as a result. Speech patterns are often mirrored, too, which is a useful way of establishing rapport. Mirror neurons could also be the pathway for learning and for the basis of a host of other mental abilities, although there is some controversy about this.4 • Emotional empathy: In this form of empathy, the other person’s emotion leaps the gap between you, causing you similar feelings and memories. It’s like a strike of lightning. This emotional reso- nance is called affective empathy in psychology literature. Affective means emotional, so you can also call it emotional empathy. Emo- tional empathy is not limited to face-to-face encounters; it can arc between you and an actor in a movie or a character in a book, like in Figure 2.6. • Empathic concern: If you have sensed emotional empathy, you might then develop an array of reactions having to do with the situation the other person is in. These feelings may lead to some act on your part toward the person. • Personal distress: If you realize something distressing is hap- pening to someone else, you either experience a sharp moment of the same distress, or you try to ignore or “un-see” the person’s predicament. Imagine seeing a friend chopping vegetables and cutting herself, or witnessing a stranger loudly cussing at another person in the grocery store. 3 Daniel Batson reviewed psychology publications and found at least eight different uses of the word empathy. See his chapter, “These Things Called Empathy,” in the book The Social Neuroscience of Empathy, edited by Jean Decety and William Ickes, MIT Press. Daniel Batson is Professor Emeritus at the University of Kansas. 4 Ramachandran, V.S. The Tell-Tale Brain: A Neuroscientist’s Quest for What Makes Us Human. New York: W.W. Norton & Company, 2011. Empathy Brings Balance 25 • Cognitive empathy: This is the kind of empathy discussed in this book. Cognitive empathy is purposely discovering the underly- ing thoughts and emotions that guide someone else’s decisions and behavior. • Self empathy: Self empathy is turning your purposeful discovery inward, to learn how your own mind reasons and reacts. It is the subject of many spiritual practices, meditation, as well as the subject of exploration between a patient and a psychotherapist. People also mix up empathy with sympathy. Sympathy also has vary- ing definitions, but most often is characterized as offering someone kind words, usually when that person is feeling distress.