---
tags:
  - information-architecture
source: "[[The Web Project Guide - From Spark to Launch and Beyond]]"
---
Information architecture, at its core, is about organization. It’s about making things seem logical. It’s both an exercise in tidiness and labeling; not unlike Marie Kondo’s dream of simple, purposeful spaces, information architecture focuses on making the most of the space we are given. Which means information architecture helps us with the following: • Knowing the hierarchy of content within a template, like the home page or an interior page, helps us make better design choices, including how content is accessed when on a smaller, mobile screen. • Understanding how content needs to be labeled helps us make better decisions when it comes to search results, filtering options, and other aggregated content streams. • Navigation groupings don’t just help us find things: they help us prioritize sections of the site, and they help surface content that might otherwise be forgotten. • All of this helps us piece together all of the different content types and blocks and sentences and complex systems that we will use to help a person make their way through the site. It’s ultimately all about organizing what you have in a way that makes sense to the people you’re designing and creating for. There’s that theme again: your information architecture is driven by user needs, which means it’s driven by users. Test for them. Create for them. Build a site that helps them find their way to your content. A strong information architecture requires a system of pages that can support it: it needs fields for categories, and it needs pre-determined relationships, and it needs to be able to handle all of that complicated work you can’t manage as a human editor. That’s where we’re going next: into the world of content modeling, where we start giving our content shapes and we start defining just exactly what each of those templates represents