---
tags:
  - web
source: "[[The Web Project Guide - From Spark to Launch and Beyond]]"
---
General Fit • How closely does their typical project match yours? Content management projects come in all shapes and sizes – a body of technical documentation is not the same as a campaign microsite. Make sure they have at least some experience in the general type of content management you’re planning. • Where does your project fit in terms of size – are you at the top range of what they do, or are you far smaller than the typical project? Neither situation is great. You don’t want to be so big that you overwhelm them, but you also don’t want to be their smallest client, fighting for attention. You’re looking for somewhere in the upper middle range – big enough to be important to them, but not so big they can’t handle you. • How much experience do they have with the specific CMS and technology stack you’re considering? There’s some chance you’re only talking to them because they know your CMS, which is great. But if this isn’t the case, you need to nail them down on their level of experience. A modern, enterprise CMS is complicated enough that you don’t want to be their first project with it.101 • How long have they been in business, and what’s their total headcount and turnover? You’re trying to gauge general stability, to make sure they’re going to stick around. You can also ask for financial statements, but don’t do this unless you actually intend to examine them. Would you even know which numbers signify what’s healthy or unhealthy?102 • How are projects invoiced, and is payment based on milestones or accrued hours? Know that what the partner wants more than anything here is predictability. They’re looking for a way to know how much they can expect from you every month. Production • What is their development methodology?103 Dozens of different methodologies exist. Simply put, make sure they have some process. You don’t want step two in their methodology to be “… and then a miracle occurs.” Ask yourself if it sounds clear, reasonable, and repeatable, or if it sounds like they just made it up on the spot. • Will you get a dedicated resource or team, or will you have a partial resource who is working on other things? The latter option isn’t necessarily wrong. At times your project won’t be in active development, or specific team members won’t have anything to do for you, so they’re obviously going to work on something else. But know where you stack up in someone’s daily responsibilities. • At what points in the project are you expected to do something? You need to figure this out in advance to manage your own staffing. You don’t want to be caught flat-footed, because having the project grind to a stop can be devastating, especially if it drags on so long that your partner re-tasks some of your production team. • Who is your point-of-contact on the partner side, and how much access do you have to the production team? Ideally, you want a single point-of-contact. But at the same time, you don’t want to be forcibly prevented from contacting the people doing the work. A direct conversation goes a long way sometimes. • Will the partner keep the work in-house, or are they sending it off-shore? I’m not indicting the off-shore approach, but investigate the model behind that. Is the off-shore team employed by the partner or subcontracted, and will the partner take absolute responsibility for their work? Quality • How do you signal acceptance of a deliverable or milestone? Will you agree in a meeting, or will you formally certify a deliverable? If you’re certifying a deliverable, know that you might be sacrificing your rights to complain about something later. If this is the case, then make sure you have some process to make absolutely sure that deliverable is ready to go. • What is the partner’s QA process, and what do they expect from you? Many different processes exist, so it’s hard to say one is better than another. Just evaluate their answer to make sure they have some process. If they look like a deer in headlights when you ask this, then plan on doing your own QA. • If you’re not happy, what is your escalation path? Ideally, you would rate at least a short conversation with someone at the C-level before you sign-on. If something goes wrong, you need to know how you climb that tree and talk to someone who can take action. Support • What is their normal scope of customer relationship, and what happens after launch? They may hand you off. They may continue working with you. Neither option is wrong, but make sure that your expectation matches theirs. • How does follow-on work get handled? They may want a retainer worth a set of hours, or they may scope each feature or project. What’s right here depends on how much work you expect to continue to do with them over time. If you’re going to have an active, ongoing relationship, seek some kind of standing retainer – you can often get a better deal on hours and priority scheduling. • To what extent are they available for support? Not a lot of shops offer 24/7 support. This usually comes from a hosting provider, but your hosting company might tell you that your implementation partner did something wrong. What happens then? • Do they offer a warranty, and how long is it? A warranty might be one week, or one month, or one year. Don’t expect the latter, because partners have to put some boundary around support, but just find out what that is. • What’s the intellectual property (IP) status of what they do for you? At Blend, we’re sticklers for making sure you can walk away when you want to. We absolutely will not advise you to engage with a company that would maintain any IP control over your project. Make sure that if you cut ties, you get everything you need to restart with someone else.104 Staffing and Schedule The following questions are common, but understand that they’re often difficult for providers to answer with absolutely certainty. • Who is going to work on my project? Who the provider assigns to your project depends highly on schedule. They can’t just have a stable of people sitting around doing nothing waiting for your project to start. And aspects of your project that get defined midstream might change who staffs it. Clearly, you want to make sure you’re not getting “the B team,” but asking for iron-clad staffing commitments for a project that doesn’t even exist on their production calendar is only possible if you will be the largest project they have going and they’re willing to clear the calendar for you. • When will my project be finished? The only answer here can be given in relative terms, because this necessarily depends on when it starts and what the final scope of work looks like. The provider might answer, “This is an eight to ten week project.” So, it’s done eight to ten weeks after it starts, whenever that is. If they give you a date, and then you delay on making a decision, expect that date to slip. Additionally, like staffing, things might come up during the project that change its course and cause the date to slip. This makes exact commitments tough and inadvisable.