---
draft: true
tags:
  - content-model
  - content-strategy
source: "[[Web Content Management]]"
---
The shape of content refers to the general characteristics of a content model when taken in aggregate and when considered against the usage patterns of your content consumers. Different usage patterns and models result in clear differences between content and its aggregation requirements. Content may be: Serial This type of content is organized in a serial “line,” ordered by some parameter. An obvious example is a blog, which is a reverse-chronological aggregation of posts. Very similar to that are social media updates—a tweet stream, for instance —or a news feed. This content doesn’t need to be organized in any larger con‐ struct beyond where it falls in chronological order relative to other content. A glossary might be considered serial as well—it’s a simple list of terms, ordered alphabetically by title. Hierarchical This type of content is organized into a tree. There is a root content object in the tree that has multiple children, each of which may itself have one or more chil‐ dren, and so on. Sibling content items (those items under the same parent) can have an arbitrary order. Trees can be broad (lots of children under each parent) or narrow (fewer children) and shallow (fewer levels) or deep (more levels). An example of this is the core pages of many simple informational websites. Websites are generally organized into trees—there is primary navigation (Products, About Us, Contact Us), which leads to secondary navigation (Product A, Product B, etc.). Navigational aggregations for these sites can often be derived from the position of content objects in the tree.

Tabular2 This type of content has a clearly defined structure of a single, dominant type, and is usually optimized for searching, not browsing. Imagine a large Excel spreadsheet with labeled header columns and thousands of rows. An example would be a company locations database. There might be 1,000 locations, all clearly organized into columns (address, city, state, phone number, hours, etc.). Users are not going to browse this information. Rather, they search it based on parameters. Network This type of content has no larger structure beyond the links between individual content objects. All content is equal, flat, and unordered in relation to other con‐ tent, with nothing but links between the content to tie it together. An obvious example of this is a wiki. Wikis have no structure (some allow hierarchical orga‐ nization of pages, but most do not), and the entire body of content is held together only by the links between pages. A social network—if managed as con‐ tent—would be another example. Content (“people”) is equal in the network, and arbitrarily connected (“friends”) with other content. Relational This type of content has a tightly defined structural relationship between multiple highly structured content types, much like a typical relational database. The Internet Movie Database, for example, has Movies, which have one or more Actors, zero or more Sequels, zero or more Trivia Items, etc. These relationships are enforced—for instance, you cannot add a Trivia Item for a Movie that doesn’t exist. A Trivia Item is required to be linked to a Movie, and cannot be added until the Movie exists. Different CMSs have different levels of ability to handle the different shapes of con‐ tent.